[new] MST High Availability (#1726)
timescale/docs: mst/about-mst.md

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/mst-service-plans.png" alt="Managed Service for TimescaleDB selecting a service configuration plan"/>

## High availability

Minor failures such as a service process crashes or temporary loss of network
access are handled automatically in all plans without any major changes to the

> service deployment. The service automatically restores normal operation once the

Author: Done!!!

operation when the crashed process restarts automatically or when the network
access is restored.

> However, more severe failure modes such as losing a single node entirely,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, more severe failure modes, such as losing a single node entirely,
```

require more drastic recovery measures. Losing an entire node or a virtual
machine could happen for example due to hardware failure or a severe software
failure.

A failing node is automatically detected by the MST monitoring infrastructure.

> Either the node starts reporting that its own self-diagnostics is having

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Either the node starts reporting that its own self-diagnostics is reporting
```

> problems or the node stops communicating entirely. The monitoring infra

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
problems or the node stops communicating entirely. The monitoring infrastructure
```

automatically schedules a new replacement node to be created when this happens.

<highlight type="note">

> In case of database failover, the Service URL of your service remains the same,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of database failover, the service URL of your service remains the same,
```

> In case of database failover, the service URL of your service remains the same,
> only the IP address changes to point at the new master node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of database failover, the service URL of your service remains the same.
Only the IP address changes to point at the new master node.
```

</highlight>

Managed Service for TimescaleDB availability features differ based on the service
plan:

> *   Basic and Dev plans: These are single-node plans and with a two day backup history for Basic plan and with one day backup history for Dev plan
> day for Dev backup histories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Basic and Dev plans: These are single-node plans. Basic plans include a two-day backup history, and Dev plans include a one-day backup history.
```

*   Pro plans: These are two-node plans with a master and a standby for higher

> availability, and three day backup histories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
availability, and three-day backup histories.
```

> ### Single-node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Single node
```

> In the Basic and Dev plans losing the only node from the service immediately

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Basic and Dev plans, if you lose the only node from the service, it immediately
```

starts the automatic process of creating a new replacement node. The new node

> starts up, restores its state from the latest available backup and resumes the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starts up, restores its state from the latest available backup, and resumes the
```

service. Because there was just a single node providing the service, the service

> is unavailable for the duration of the restore operation. Also any writes made

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is unavailable for the duration of the restore operation. Also, any writes made
```

since the backup of the latest write-ahead log (WAL) file is lost. Typically

> this time window is limited to either one of five minutes of time or one WAL
> file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this time window is limited to either five minutes, or one WAL
file.
```

### Highly available nodes

> In Pro plans when a PostgreSQL standby fails, the master node keeps running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Pro plans, if a PostgreSQL standby fails, the master node keeps running
```

> normally and provides normal service level to the client applications. Once the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
normally and provides normal service level to the client applications. When the
```

> new replacement Standby node is ready and synchronized with the master, it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
new replacement standby node is ready and synchronized with the master, it
```

> starts replicating the master in real time as the situation reverts to normal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starts replicating the master in real time and normal operation resumes.
```

> When the PostgreSQL master fails, the combined information from the MST

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the PostgreSQL master fails, the combined information from the MST
```

> monitoring infra and the standby node is used to make a failover decision. On

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
monitoring infrastructure and the standby node is used to make a failover decision. On
```

> the nodes, the Open Source monitoring daemon `PGLookout` in combination with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the nodes, the open source monitoring daemon `PGLookout` in combination with the
```

> information from the MST system infra report the failover. If the master node is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
information from the MST system infrastructure report the failover. If the master node is
```

> the nodes, the open source monitoring daemon `PGLookout` in combination with the
> information from the MST system infrastructure report the failover. If the master node is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the nodes, the open source monitoring daemon `PGLookout`, in combination with the
information from the MST system infrastructure, reports the failover. If the master node is
```

down completely, the standby node promotes itself as the new master node and
immediately starts serving clients. A new replacement node is automatically
scheduled and becomes the new standby node.

If both master and standby nodes fail at the same time, two new nodes are

> automatically scheduled for creation and becomes the new master and standby

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically scheduled for creation and become the new master and standby
```

nodes respectively. The master node restores itself from the latest available

> backup, which means that there can be some degree of data loss involved such as,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
backup, which means that there can be some degree of data loss involved. For example,
```

> any writes made since the backup of the latest write-ahead log (WAL) file are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
any writes made since the backup of the latest write-ahead log (WAL) file can be
```

lost.

The amount of time it takes to replace a failed node depends mainly on the cloud
region and the amount of data that needs to be restored. However, in the case of

> services with two-node Pro plans the surviving node keeps serving clients even

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services with two-node Pro plans, the surviving node keeps serving clients even
```

> during the recreation of the other node. All of this is automatic and requires
> no administrator intervention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
during the recreation of the other node. This process is entirely automatic and requires
no manual intervention.
```

> For backups and restoration, Managed Service for TimescaleDB utilizes the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For backups and restoration, Managed Service for TimescaleDB uses the
```

> popular Open Source backup daemon `PGHoard` that MST maintains. It makes real-time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
open source backup daemon `PGHoard` that MST maintains. It makes real-time
```
